---
ID: 202
post_title: Apprentice Healthcare Support Worker
author: lousyleonard
post_date: 2017-04-27 18:42:39
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://localhost/wordpress/2017/04/27/202/
published: true
st_hide_title_check_option:
  - null
---
<div class="blocktext-pages-heading">
<h1>Healthcare Support Workers are one of the biggest groups of staff in the health service. An Apprentice Healthcare Support Worker works as part of the ward/department team under the direct supervision of clinical staff – registered nurses and midwives. You would work alongside more experienced healthcare support workers to deliver patient care, supporting clinical staff to provide a safe and caring environment.</h1>
</div>
<div class="blocktext">
<h2>What sort of person would I need to be?</h2>
You need to <strong>care</strong> about people and want to help people so that they can reach their full potential. It is important that you can take time to <strong>listen</strong> – you will have to take time to listen to patients, families and carers so that they are involved and informed. You will be able to show <strong>understanding and compassion</strong> with an ability to <strong>reassure</strong> people. You are someone who is <strong>observant and attentive</strong> and someone who can take <strong>responsibility</strong> as it is vital that all those in our care are safe.

A <strong>friendly</strong> manner goes a long way, someone who <strong>smiles</strong>, but is also polite and <strong>non-judgemental</strong> when communicating with the patients and members of staff. You are part of a <strong>team</strong> but you also need to take personal responsibility to do the best you can in your own role and someone who is always <strong>keen to learn</strong>.

</div>
<div class="blocktext">
<h2>What will I be doing?</h2>
If you are on a ward, you will be doing a lot of personal care activities like helping with feeding and drinking, dressing/undressing patients and helping the nurses with their duties. You are always supervised as you are learning. You have a lot of mentoring support from a buddy who works alongside you. The buddy is really helpful – you can go and ask if you are not sure about something or if you need to talk about something that has possibly upset you. It’s really useful support – they have been in your place too so understand!

You can be a bit shy at first, seeing people with no clothes on. You soon realise it’s about treating the patient with respect. You need to listen to their needs and try to respond to them as sensitively as you can. You report back to the qualified nurses if you see any changes in the patient that is either worrying them or worrying you.

</div>
<div class="blocktext">
<h2>Training provided by the organisation to support me in my role?</h2>
As an Apprentice, you will attend the Corporate Induction – this will introduce you to your organisation and give you an understanding of how it works.

You will undertake the Care Certificate.   This covers important topics such as equality and diversity, privacy and dignity and infection prevention and control.

You will do your Apprenticeship in Clinical Healthcare Support at Level 2. Topics covered include assisting in the administration of medicine, supporting individuals with day to day activities and understanding mental health and well-being. Other training may be identified to enable you to complete the full Apprenticeship framework. As well as your mentor and buddy, you will also have an assessor who will assess your skills in the workplace.

</div>
<div class="blocktext">
<h2>I am interested in this role – what do I do?</h2>
Have a look at <a href="https://www.healthcareers.nhs.uk/explore-roles/clinical-support-staff/healthcare-assistant">Health Careers</a> for more details on what the role involves. If you want to see if there are any vacancies look at <a href="http://www.jobs.nhs.uk/">NHS Jobs</a> , the <a href="http://www.apprenticeships.gov.uk/how_to_apply">National Apprenticeship</a> site or <a href="http://cornwallapprenticeships.com/">Cornwall Apprenticeships</a>.

If you want to get some experience, have you thought of work experience or volunteering? There are a number of caring roles in the care sector including Domiciliary Care. They are opportunities to build up your career whilst gaining valuable experience.

</div>
<div class="blocktext">
<h2>What next – where will this role lead to?</h2>
Your Apprenticeship gets you on the ladder – it is the starting point for your career. You can go on to become a Healthcare Support Worker on a ward or in the community or in social care. With further training you can move on to become a Senior Healthcare Support Worker. You might specialise and work with a certain group of patients such as those with dementia or you may develop your skills working alongside other healthcare professionals such as Occupational Therapists.

</div>